<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>53: Note by Paul Harrison</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2" id="chapter-53" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">53</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Note by Paul Harrison</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>This statement concludes the evidence, which I have to lay before you. You have already, I understand, received a brief communication from Sir James Lubbock, confirming the account of his experiment with the synthetic muscarine. Munting’s narrative is of some value as indicating the lines on which such an experimental proof, though unusual and somewhat technical in character, might be presented to a jury of reasonably intelligent persons.</p>
			<p>The unsatisfactory part of the case is, as you will see, that which concerns the woman, Margaret Harrison. As the letter <abbr>No.</abbr> <a href="chapter-46.xhtml">46</a> shows, she has taken pains to protect herself against any suspicion of complicity. Although, morally, she is quite equally guilty with Lathom, and though I have personally no doubt that the letter is an impudent hypocrisy, it will probably be difficult to bring home to her a guilty knowledge of the actual commission of the crime. That she instigated and inspired it is, to my mind, certain; but Lathom will strenuously deny this, and I have failed to secure any reliable evidence against her. I trust that you will use every possible endeavour to prevent this abominable woman from getting off scot-free.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>I reopen this parcel to add that I have received a message from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cutts. Lathom, she tells me, has given a week’s notice to his landlord. This may mean everything or nothing, but prompt action seems advisable.</p>
			<hr/>
			<div>
				<p>Sir Gilbert Pugh, Director of Public Prosecutions, turned the last page of the manuscript, and sat for a few minutes in silence. Mentally he watched his expert witnesses displaying an asymmetric molecule to a jury of honest tradesmen, under a withering fire of commentary by the counsel for the defence.</p>
				<p>He sighed. This sort of case always meant a lot of work and bother.</p>
				<p>“Simmons!”</p>
				<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
				<p>“Get me the Chief Commissioner on the phone.”</p>
			</div>
			<hr/>
			<p>[Pinned to the portfolio at some subsequent date.]</p>
			<hr/>
			<blockquote>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>Extract from the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Morning Express</i> of <time datetime="1930-11-30">November 30th, 1930</time></p>
					<p>Manaton Murderer Hanged</p>
				</header>
				<p>The execution took place in Exeter Gaol, at 8 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> today, of Harwood Lathom, who was convicted in October of the murder of George Harrison at The Shack, Manaton, by poisoning him with muscarine.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
