<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>47</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2" id="chapter-47" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>47. <i>Extract from the “Morning Express” of Tuesday, October 21st, 1929</i></h3>
			<div>
				<!-- rend=';' -->
				<p>MUSHROOM DEATH MYSTERY INQUEST</p>
				<p>⸻—</p>
				<p>Poisoned Man’s Lone Agony</p>
				<p>⸻—</p>
				<p>WELL-KNOWN ARTIST GIVES EVIDENCE</p>
				<p>⸻—</p>
			</div>
			<!-- end rend -->
			<p>The little schoolroom in the remote village of Manaton in Devon was crowded to-day, when Dr. Pringle, the coroner for the district, opened the inquest on the body of George Harrison, aged 56, Head of the Accounts Department of Messrs. Frobisher, Wiley &amp; Teddington, Electrical Engineers, who was found dead under extraordinary circumstances in his little cottage, “The Shack,” on Saturday night.</p>
			<p>Evidence of the deceased’s curious hobbies was given by his friend, Mr. Harwood Lathom, the brilliant young artist, who had been staying with him in “The Shack,” and who discovered the body.</p>
			<p>The deceased, who is the author of <i>Neglected Edible Treasures</i>, an interesting and highly original volume, dealing with the foodstuffs to be obtained from our native woods and hedgerows, was stated to have been fond of experiments in unconventional cookery, and it was suggested that he had fallen a victim to accidental poisoning, by consuming a dish of venomous toadstools, a portion of which, it is alleged, was discovered on the table in “The Shack” at the time of his death.</p>
			<p>The inquest was adjourned for a fortnight, to enable a chemical analysis to be made of certain organs.</p>
			<p>After formal evidence of identification, the first witness called was Mr. Harwood Lathom. Dressed in a suit of heathermixture plus-four tweeds and with an expression of anxiety and distress on his face, Mr. Lathom gave his evidence in a subdued tone.</p>
			<p>SWEALED HEDGEHOG</p>
			<p>Mr. Lathom said that he had known Mr. Harrison and his family for a period of rather over twelve months. He had occupied the adjoining maisonnette to theirs in Bayswater, and had there formed an acquaintance with them, which had resulted in a considerable degree of intimacy. He had painted a portrait of Mrs. Harrison, which had been exhibited in the spring of 1929 at the Royal Academy. Financial and other considerations had resulted in his giving up the lease of the maisonnette in February, and going to live in Paris, but the friendship with the Harrisons had been kept up by correspondence and occasional visits.</p>
			<p>Mr. Harrison had been accustomed to take an annual holiday “on his own” at “The Shack,” living a bachelor existence, and making the experiments in natural cookery in which he was interested. He also painted in water-colours. On Mr. Lathom’s return to England, in October, Mr. Harrison had suggested that he should join him in his residence at “The Shack.” They had gone down there together on Saturday, the 11th of October, and had passed a very enjoyable holiday.</p>
			<hr class="tbk"/>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: Will you explain the arrangements made about obtaining supplies of food and so on?⁠—Bread, meat and vegetables were brought, when required, by the carrier, who called on Monday and Thursday, and took the orders for his next visit. A supply of tinned food, including condensed milk, was kept in “The Shack.” There was no delivery of newspapers. Letters were fetched from the post-office at Manaton by anybody who happened to be walking that way, or brought by the carrier on his visits.</p>
			<p>Who did the cooking and housework?⁠—We shared the work of washing up, carrying wood and so on. Mr. Harrison did all the cooking. He was a first-class cook.</p>
			<p>Did he supplement the fresh and tinned meat and so on, with what may be called experiments in natural diet?⁠—Oh yes. One evening we had swealed hedgehog, for example. (Laughter.)</p>
			<p>Was it good?⁠—It was delicious. (Laughter.)</p>
			<p>“I NEVER ATE ANY TOADSTOOLS”</p>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: Hedgehog⁠—was that the only unconventional dish you saw prepared?⁠—No. On two or three occasions Mr. Harrison gathered fungi of various kinds and had them for breakfast or supper.</p>
			<p>Did these fungi include the ordinary mushroom of commerce?⁠—On one occasion, yes.</p>
			<p>Did you eat any of that dish?⁠—I ate a small quantity. I do not care much for mushrooms.</p>
			<p>And on the other occasions?⁠—On, I think, two occasions, Mr. Harrison brought in other fungi, which, he explained, were good to eat. A great number of fungi are to be found in the valleys and damp, low-lying spots in the neighbourhood. One variety was called, I believe, Chantarelles, or some such name, and there was also a purple one, called “Amethyst” something-or-other.</p>
			<p>These were fungi of a kind not usually eaten by the ordinary person? The sort commonly called toadstools.⁠—Yes; common, wild fungi.</p>
			<p>Was the flavour of them agreeable?⁠—I do not know. They smelt very savoury, but I did not eat any of them.</p>
			<p>How was that?⁠—I did not think it was safe. I was afraid of eating something poisonous.</p>
			<p>You knew that a great many edible varieties of fungi exist in addition to the common mushroom? There is a Government publication dealing with them, I believe?⁠—I believe there is.</p>
			<p>And Mr. Harrison was considered an authority on the subject?⁠—I do not know if he was generally so considered. He had devoted much attention to the subject and had written a book on our natural food resources.</p>
			<p>Had you read the book?⁠—I had read parts of it.</p>
			<p>But you did not feel sufficient confidence in the deceased’s judgment to partake of the toadstools yourself?⁠—I suppose I did not. These things are largely a matter of prejudice. I did not care about the idea of eating toadstools.</p>
			<p>UNHEEDED WARNINGS</p>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: But Mr. Harrison ate them and was none the worse.⁠—Oh, certainly. He appeared to enjoy them very much and there were no ill-effects.</p>
			<p>Did you ever remonstrate with the deceased about his habit of eating these dangerous fungi?⁠—I told him I was afraid there would an accident some day. The subject had frequently been mentioned previously, when he was preparing his book. Mrs. Harrison and his friends often said, more or less jokingly, that there would be a coroner’s inquest on him one of these days.</p>
			<p>And how did the deceased receive these warnings?⁠—He laughed, and said it was all ignorance and prejudice. He said there was no danger at all for anybody who had thoroughly studied the subject.</p>
			<p>Can you tell us how these dishes of fungi were prepared?⁠—He had several methods. Sometimes he would grill them with butter and garlic, and other times he would stew them with condensed milk or in beef-stock. He was fond of inventing new methods of cooking things.</p>
			<p>“I AM GOING TO HUNT FOR FUNGI”</p>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: Now let us come to the time of the death. You had gone up to London, I think?⁠—Yes. I had occasion to consult my agents and to transact a few matters of business in town. I went up by the 8.13 from Bovey Tracey on the Thursday morning. I had ordered a taxi the day before.</p>
			<p>Was Mr. Harrison quite well when you left him?⁠—Perfectly. He was in particularly good spirits. He had risen early, with the intention of gathering a certain kind of fungus for his supper. It was one particular sort which he said he knew where to get.</p>
			<p>Do you recollect its name?⁠—I am not sure. I think he called it “Warty Hat.” (Laughter.) He said he knew of a wood where it was very plentiful.</p>
			<p>I have here a copy of Mr. Harrison’s book. I see there is a fungus mentioned as being of an edible nature, called “Warty Caps.” Would that be the one? Its Latin name is <i>Amanita rubescens</i>.⁠—I should think that would be the one.</p>
			<p>Had Mr. Harrison started out before you left?⁠—No. He saw me off at the gate into the lane.</p>
			<p>POISONED DEATH AGONY</p>
			<p>Mr. Lathom then stated that he had returned to “The Shack” late on Saturday night, bringing with him Mr. John Munting, a mutual friend of himself and the Harrisons, and the author of a successful novel.</p>
			<p>Arriving at “The Shack” at about eleven o’clock, they found the place in darkness and the fire out. The remains of a dish of mushrooms was on the table in the outer room, together with the shells of some boiled eggs, a loaf of bread and a cup one-quarter filled with coffee.</p>
			<p>On penetrating into the inner room, they discovered the body of Harrison, lying half-dressed on the bed. It was cold when found, and the features much distorted. Various articles in the room were flung about in a disorderly fashion and the trestle-bedstead was broken. Both in this and in the outer room there were signs that the dead man had vomited persistently. A bottle of whiskey and a tumbler were found beneath the bed.</p>
			<p>As there is no telephone communication between “The Shack” and Manaton, Mr. Lathom was obliged to go on foot to summon assistance. The landlord of the inn at Manaton telephoned to the police-station at Bovey Tracey. Sergeant Warbeck, who received the message, communicated at once with Dr. Hughes, and proceeded in the doctor’s car to the scene of the tragedy.</p>
			<hr class="tbk"/>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: Was Mr. Harrison a man of cheerful disposition?⁠—He was a reserved man of quiet tastes and behaviour on the whole, though subject to occasional fits of annoyance about trifles.</p>
			<p>During the time you were with him at “The Shack,” did he appear to have anything on his mind?⁠—Certainly not: he was in excellent spirits.</p>
			<p>In your opinion, he was not a man likely to lay violent hands on himself?⁠—Far from it. I was convinced at the time, and still am, that his death was a pure accident, due to some fungi he had eaten.</p>
			<p>It came as a great surprise to you?⁠—Well, of course, I was very much shocked and upset, but when I came to think it over⁠—no, I cannot say I was greatly surprised.</p>
			<p>Dr. Hughes gave evidence that he had examined the body of Harrison and formed the opinion that when seen by him at about 1.30 a.m. deceased had been dead seven or eight hours. He had had the body removed to Bovey Tracey for the purpose of an autopsy. Acting in collaboration with the police, he had sent certain organs, portions of bed-linen, and remains of food to be chemically analysed.</p>
			<hr class="tbk"/>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: At this point of the inquiry, can you form any conclusion as to the cause of the death?⁠—The appearances suggest that deceased was poisoned by some substance which produced violent sickness and diarrhœa, followed by prolonged delirium and convulsions, ending in coma and death. The pupils of the eyes were slightly contracted, suggesting also the action of a poison.</p>
			<p>Would fugus-poisoning have this effect?⁠—Yes, and so would certain other vegetable poisons; opium, for example. It is, however, unusual for the appearance to persist so long after death. I do not place much reliance upon this symptom.</p>
			<p>Do the general symptoms, as noted by you, appear to point to poisoning by a deadly fungus?⁠—They are consistent with that possibility.</p>
			<p>Dr. Hughes added that there were no exterior signs of the application of physical violence.</p>
			<p>WIDOW SHEDS TEARS</p>
			<p>Mr. John Munting confirmed Mr. Lathom’s evidence in every particular.</p>
			<p>A rustle of sympathy went round the little court when the widow, Mrs. Margaret Harrison, appeared in the box. Fashionably but quietly dressed in a black face-cloth costume and closely-fitting cloche hat, Mrs. Harrison gave her evidence in a voice so subdued as to be scarcely audible.</p>
			<p>She declared that her husband had greatly looked forward to this country holiday. On such occasions he was accustomed to go to “The Shack” by himself, or with a male friend. She never accompanied him to “The Shack.” On previous holidays he had frequently taken as his companion his son by an earlier marriage, Mr. Paul Harrison, a civil engineer, now absent in Central Africa. She had always understood that the deceased cooked for himself at “The Shack,” and made experiments with unconventional foodstuffs.</p>
			<p>She had warned him again and again of the danger attending such experiments, but deceased had great confidence in his ability to distinguish edible varieties of plants from the poisonous kinds, and always laughed at any remonstrance.</p>
			<p>On being asked whether the deceased was a man who might be considered likely to take his own life, the widow replied indignantly:</p>
			<p>“He had no reason to do such a dreadful thing, and I am sure he was the last person to think of it.”</p>
			<p>The witness here broke down and sobbed violently, and had to be assisted to her seat.</p>
			<p>The coroner then adjourned the inquest for a fortnight to permit of an analysis of the contents of the viscera and the various articles found in the house.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
