<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>23: The Same to the Same</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">23</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Same to the Same</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<time datetime="1928-12-04">4.12.28</time>
				</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Bungie dearest,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Just a line to say that the unexpected has happened! Merritt is all over the book!!! Thinks it’s the biggest thing that ever happened, and has offered me a first-class contract (£100 advance, 10% to 500, 15% to 1,000 and 20% thereafter, with a firm offer for the next two beginning at top previous rate), on condition he can get it into print instanter to publish before the end of <abbr class="eoc">Jan.</abbr> The man’s as mad as a hatter!</p>
			<p>I nearly sent round to get him certified, but instead found myself accepting the terms. When you consider the frightful flop <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Deadlock</i> was, you realise that the thing is sheer stark raving madness, but who cares?</p>
			<p>Damn it, I always believed there was something in the book, but I thought I was a fool to think so. But how can he ever imagine that it will <em>sell</em>!⁠ ⁠… But that’s <em>his</em> funeral.</p>
			<p>He says it must have a new title. Try and think of something that will look well on a jacket, there’s an ingenious cherub. It’s fearfully urgent, because he’s got to get his travellers out with it at the beginning of next month.</p>
			<p>Lathom’s portrait of Miss Milsom is the wickedest piece of satire you ever saw. She, fortunately, does not see it at all. In fact, she lugged the parson up to have a look at it yesterday. Perry, though a parson, is no fool. He looked grave, said that it was a striking picture, and added that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom had a great gift which should be put to great uses. Lathom grinned, and Miss Milsom began to babble about the Academy and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison’s portrait, at which Perry looked graver still. I suppose he thinks that idiots should be charitably protected from themselves. Lathom is in wild spirits and is working like something inspired. <i xml:lang="la">O si sic omnes</i>, meaning me!</p>
			<p>Jim reports that he is toiling away like stink and really sticking to it. I hope so. He will be at home when term ends, so you will meet the white-headed boy of the family. I trust you will be able to bear with us all. He is inflicting on us a friend of his who went down from Caius this year⁠—man called Leader⁠—one of those infernally high-spirited youths who bounce all over the shop like Airedale puppies⁠—he rouses all my worst instincts, but is perfectly harmless. He is now in London, at <abbr>St.</abbr> Anthony’s College of Medicine, and I suppose one of these days he will muddle though his hospital work and be turned out as a genial <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.</abbr>⁠—“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Leader is <em>such</em> a nice, cheerful man; he makes you feel better the minute he comes into the room.” I hate cheerful people. Still, he and Jimmy will amuse one another, and we shall have a chance to get off on our own a bit.</p>
			<p>Bless you, Bungie! I am counting the days till we meet.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your own</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Jack</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
