<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3>8</h3>
					<h4>The Same to the Same</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>15a, Whittington Terrace<br/>
				<time datetime="">12th October, 1928</time></p>
				<p>Dearest Bungie,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Things are looking up. This <i>Life</i> will be finished by Christmas, I hope. I am rather stuck at present over the chapter on “Religious Convictions.” It is difficult to bring one’s mind into sympathy with that curious Victorian blend of materialism and trust in a personally interfering Providence. It’s odd how they seem to have blinded themselves to the hopeless contradiction between their science and their conventional ethics. On the one hand, an acceptance of the Darwinian survival of the fittest, which ought to have made them completely ruthless in theory and in practice; on the other, a sort of sentimental humanitarianism, which directly led to our own special problem of the multitudinous survival of the unfittest. They seem to have had a pathetic belief that it could all be set right by machinery. I don’t know, come to think of it, that we are in a much better position to-day, except that we have lost the saving belief in machinery. Which doesn’t stop our becoming more and more mechanical, any more than their having lost their belief in anthropomorphism stopped them from becoming more and more humanitarian. Compromise⁠—blessed word!⁠—Chesterton speaks somewhere of the great Victorian compromise⁠—but why Victorian, more than anything else? At any rate, they had the consolation of feeling that this earth and its affairs were extremely large and important⁠—though why they should have thought so, when they were convinced they were only the mechanical outcome of a cast-iron law of evolution on a very three-by-four planet, whirling round a fifth-rate star in illimitable space, passes human comprehension. It would be more reasonable to think so to-day, if Eddington and those people are right in supposing that we are rather a freak sort of planet, with quite unusual facilities for being inhabited, and that space is a sort of cosy little thing which God could fold up and put in his pocket without our ever noticing the difference. Anyhow, if time and space and straightness and curliness and bigness and smallness are all relative, then we may just as well think ourselves important as not. “Important, unimportant⁠—unimportant, important,” as the King of Hearts said, trying to see which sounded best. So, like the Victorians, we shall no doubt compromise⁠—say it is important when we have a <i>magnum opus</i> to present to an admiring creation, and unimportant when it suits our convenience to have our peccadilloes passed over.</p>
			<p>Forgive me wandering away like this. It’s just a sort of talking the thing out with you before I talk it out in the book. Because, for some reason, it does seem to me important to do this job as well as I can⁠—not merely because it will do me good with publishers, and so make it possible to embark on the important triviality of marriage, but for some obscure and irrational motive connected with the development of my soul, if I may so allude to it. I am increasingly not clear whether I am a mess of oddly-assorted chemicals (chiefly salt and water), or a kind of hypertrophied fish-egg, or an enormous, all-inclusive cosmos of solar-systematically revolving atoms, each one supporting planetfuls of solemn imbeciles like myself.</p>
			<p>But, whatever I am, I must finish the <i>Life</i> and then get on to <i>our</i> life, Bungie, because that somehow does count for something to</p>
			<p>Jack</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
