<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>19</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">19</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Same to the Same</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="1928-11-15">15.11.28</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Olive,</p>
			</header>
			<p>I have been much surprised and deeply hurt by Ronnie’s letter to me, which I enclose for you to see. I cannot believe that he would have written in that spirit of his own accord. I can only suppose that you and Tom have been prejudicing him against me. Of course, he is your child and not mine, but it is quite a mistake to imagine that, merely because of the physical accident of parenthood, you are, for that reason, divinely qualified to deal with a sensitive temperament like Ronnie’s. I (not having my eyes blinded) can see quite clearly through what he writes, that you have succeeded in <i>apparently</i> bringing him into agreement with your point of view; but, if you did but know it, you are merely encouraging him to repress his natural feelings, with consequences which may be <i>terrible to contemplate</i>. I can imagine nothing worse for him than what you call change of scene and companionship, when I know perfectly well that you mean that unimaginative and completely insensitive Potts person. I cannot imagine a more dangerous influence for a boy in Ronnie’s state of mind than a footballing parson. The harm done by men of that class is quite incalculable, and their minds are, as a rule, perfect sinks of dangerous and sublimated libidos (I don’t know whether that is the right way to spell the plural). However, it is your own affair, and I am powerless to interfere, but I do think you ought not to set the boy against me, merely because I am, unhappily, in a position to know more than you do about certain facts of life.</p>
			<p>Thank you, I am glad to say we are all very well. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison’s portrait is finished. It is a very striking piece of colour. Of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> H. thinks it does not do her justice, but then, as you would expect, he is quite out of sympathy with modern art.</p>
			<p>We are relieved from the presence of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Munting, who has gone to Oxford, on a visit to some friends, or so he says. I think it is much more likely that he is leading a double life somewhere. He unblushingly confesses to having innumerable disreputable entanglements, and I am very sorry indeed for the girl he is engaged to.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your affectionate sister,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Aggie</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
