<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>42</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>42. <i>The Same to the Same</i></h3>
			<p>15, Whittington Terrace</p>
			<p><time datetime="">18th July, 1929</time></p>
			<p>Darling, darling,</p>
			<p>I hardly know how to breathe for joy! To know that I shall see you, hear your dear voice, hold your hand again! He heard me singing in the kitchen this morning and asked what I was yowling about. I should have liked to tell him. Think of his face if I had said: ‚ÄúMy lover is coming home and I am singing for joy!‚Äù I said meekly that I was sorry if it disturbed him, and he said in his courteous way that it didn‚Äôt matter to him if I liked to hear the sound of my own voice, but the girl would probably think I was mad. I said I didn‚Äôt care what the girl thought of me, and he answered: ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs just the trouble with you. You don‚Äôt care. You‚Äôre right up in the air.‚Äù So I am‚ÅÝ‚Äîso I am! Right above the clouds, Petra darling, up in the golden sunlight, where nothing can touch me. He‚Äôs quite right for once, if he did but know it.</p>
			<p>Darling, we must be very careful when you come. I don‚Äôt know how I shall manage to keep the happiness out of my eyes and voice. But he won‚Äôt notice‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe never notices how I‚Äôm feeling. Besides, he will monopolise you with his precious book. It‚Äôs really out at last, and he‚Äôs clucking over it like a hen that‚Äôs laid an egg. People say to me: ‚ÄúSo your husband has written a book, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝHarrison. So clever of him. Fancy a man knowing such a lot about cooking! What exciting meals you must have. Aren‚Äôt you afraid he‚Äôll poison himself sometimes with those queer toadstools and things?‚Äù And I smile and say, ‚ÄúOh, but my husband would never make a stupid mistake. He knows so much about them, you see.‚Äù That‚Äôs quite true, too. He doesn‚Äôt make mistakes about things‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly about people. He never gets anything right about me‚ÅÝ‚Äînot one single thing. But then he really <i>cares</i> about mushrooms and takes trouble to study them.</p>
			<p>I wonder how his first wife put up with him. She was a homely sort of person, from all accounts‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe sort that are good housekeepers and mothers and all that. I think, if I‚Äôd ever had a child I could have been happier, but he has never given me one, and doesn‚Äôt seem to want to. I‚Äôm glad of that now‚ÅÝ‚Äîsince I met you. It would be terrible to have his child now‚ÅÝ‚Äîit would seem like a sort of treason to you, beloved. Don‚Äôt be afraid, dearest. He never touches me‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know what I mean‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I wouldn‚Äôt let him. I don‚Äôt let him even give me his usual morning peck if I can help it. I don‚Äôt refuse, of course‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat would make him suspicious at once. I just happen to be busy and keep out of his way. He‚Äôs glad, I think, because he always used to grumble at any demonstration and say, ‚ÄúThat‚Äôll do, that‚Äôll do‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough he‚Äôll let the cat swarm all over him and knead bread on his chest for hours together. I suppose he thinks a woman‚Äôs feelings don‚Äôt matter as much as a cat‚Äôs!</p>
			<p>But I don‚Äôt know why I bother about him at all, when you, you, you are the one thing filling my heart. Oh, my darling, my Petra, my heart‚Äôs heart! You are coming back. Nothing else is of importance in the whole world. The sun‚Äôs shining and everything is happy. I went out to do some shopping to-day‚ÅÝ‚Äîsilly, trivial things for the house‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I could have kissed the bread and the potatoes as I put them into my basket, just for joy that you and I and they exist in the same world together! Petra, beloved, you and I, you and I‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, darling, isn‚Äôt it wonderful!</p>
			<p>Your happy</p>
			<p>Lolo</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
