<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>18: Agatha Milsom to Olive Farebrother</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">18</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Agatha Milsom to Olive Farebrother</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="1928-11-08">8.11.28</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dearest Olive,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Ever so many thanks for sending the order from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Pottersby; I will get on with it as quickly as I can. I have two more scarves in hand, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Perry wants two dozen calendars for people in the parish, so you see I am quite busy just at present. I am glad Tom’s rheumatism is no worse, and that Joan’s little illness turned out to be such a trifling matter after all. It must have given you a lot of anxiety.</p>
			<p>I am feeling very much better, I am glad to say⁠—in fact, we are all brighter and happier for our period of peace and quietness. The Bear came back in quite a good mood, for him!⁠—and dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison seems quite a different person. She reads a lot, and I am encouraging her to live in her books, and abstract herself altogether from the wearing and irritating realities of life. It is easy, because she has a wonderfully vivid and romantic imagination, which makes the world of literature very real to her. Of course, that is what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison would never be able to understand. It is hopeless to try to discuss anything with him. I tried to get him to talk about Gilbert Frankau’s new book the other day. He said he hadn’t read it and didn’t want to. I gave him an outline of the plot, but I don’t think he was listening. At any rate, he only said, “Oh!” and went on to talk interminably about his eternal fungi and hedgehogs. Still, provided he keeps his temper, it doesn’t much matter what he talks about, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison listens to it all most patiently. I wonder how she can do it, but she is in a wonderfully serene and happy frame of mind. I am rather proud of my work, for I am sure it was our little talk in my bedroom the other day that showed her the way out of her troubles.</p>
			<p>I am sorry for what you say about Ronnie. It is most trying for you that he should have got mixed up with that sort of girl, but no doubt it will all blow over. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Trevor says that that kind of adolescent love-affair should always be dealt with sympathetically, and will work itself out naturally if not thwarted. I’m sure it would be <em>most unwise</em> of Tom to exert his authority in any way. I cannot forget how our poor dear Mother <em>ruined</em> my life⁠—of course, with the best intentions⁠—by her old-fashioned ideas of what was “nice.” Nobody will ever know what I suffered as a girl, and I am sure it is all due to that early unhappiness that I am in the doctor’s hands now. It was not the same thing for you, of course⁠—you never had that complicated and delicately-balanced temperament, and would probably always have been happy enough, whether you had married or not. People of your kind are much the most fortunate, but then one cannot help one’s temperament, can one? If you take my advice, and treat Ronnie with sympathy and indulgence, you will avoid making the mess of his life that our parents made of mine. I feel that Ronnie and I are very much akin⁠—perhaps a few words from me would help to explain him to himself. I am writing to him tonight.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your loving sister,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Aggie</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
