<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>33: Agatha Milsom to Elizabeth Drake</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">33</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Agatha Milsom to Elizabeth Drake</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="1929-02-25">25.2.29</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Madam,</p>
			</header>
			<p>You will probably be very angry at what I am going to say, but I feel it is my duty to warn you against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Munting. Girls do not always know how men go on behind their backs, and it is only right they should be told by those who have had <em>unfortunate experience</em> of these men’s real character.</p>
			<p>You may think that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Munting is honourable, but he has been turned out of this house on account of indecent behaviour, and your eyes ought to be opened to his goings-on. You may believe me because I have the best right to speak of what <em>I know</em>. I have no doubt he will tell you that this is all false and try to pull the wool over your eyes, but I have <em>proof</em> of what I say, and if you should want further evidence you can write to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison at this address, and he will tell you that every word is true.</p>
			<p>I am sending you this warning for your good, because you ought not to marry a man like that; he is not fit to marry a decent woman. You are young, and you do not know what the consequences may be of marrying a man of depraved habits. This is one incident I can tell you about of my own knowledge, but <em>there are others</em>, or why does he so often come in late at night?</p>
			<p>Do not tell him I have written to you, as it is not a pleasant thing to have to do, and naturally I do not care to write or talk about it in detail. But ask him why he was ordered out of the house, and do not believe the excuses he makes, because everybody here knows the truth and could tell it if necessary.</p>
			<p>Now for your own sake pay attention to what I say and have no more to do with that disgusting man. I know I shall get no thanks for doing my duty, but in this world one must not expect gratitude. I have already been deprived of my livelihood and made to suffer mental and financial persecution on this man’s account. However, I bear no malice, and remain</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your sincere well-wisher,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Agatha Milsom</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
