<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>46</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2" id="chapter-46" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3>46</h3>
					<h4>Margaret Harrison to Harwood Lathom</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="">20.10.29</time></p>
			</header>
			<p>Oh, Petra, my dear, my own dear at last!</p>
			<p>When I heard your voice on the ‚Äôphone this morning, telling me what had happened, I didn‚Äôt know how to believe it. It all seemed so strange. And when I hung the receiver up, I had to pinch myself to be sure it wasn‚Äôt a dream. I went upstairs, and there was the girl in her dressing-gown on the landing. She must have been hanging over the stairs, for she said, ‚ÄúOh, ma‚Äôam. Whatever‚Äôs happened? I heard the telephone a-ringing and looked out and heard you talking. Has there been an accident, ma‚Äôam?‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúYes; a dreadful accident. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarrison‚Äôs dead.‚Äù She stared at me, and I said, ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs poisoned himself with eating some of those nasty toadstools.‚Äù She began to cry, ‚ÄúI knew he would! Oh, ma‚Äôam, what an awful thing. Such a nice gentleman as he was.‚Äù That seemed to make it real, somehow. ‚ÄúA nice gentleman‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, she wasn‚Äôt married to him. She couldn‚Äôt know how I was feeling. That was just as well, wasn‚Äôt it, Petra? She hung about and brought me some tea, sniffing and sobbing over it. I couldn‚Äôt say anything, but that was all right. She thought I was stunned with grief, I suppose. I did feel stunned. I can‚Äôt realise, even now‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough I‚Äôve just seen it in the paper. Fancy that! People keep on calling, but I‚Äôve said I can‚Äôt see them. I want to be alone with my freedom.</p>
			<p>Oh, Petra‚ÅÝ‚Äîdidn‚Äôt I tell you that God was on our side? Our love is so beautiful, so <i>right</i>‚ÅÝ‚ÄîHe had to make a miracle happen to save it. Isn‚Äôt it wonderful‚ÅÝ‚Äîwithout our doing anything at all! That shows how right it was. I am so glad, now, that we didn‚Äôt do anything of the terrible things we thought about. It would have been so dangerous‚ÅÝ‚Äîand we might‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt know‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe might have wondered afterwards. It would have been like living over a volcano. And now, Heaven has stepped in and made everything all right for ever and ever.</p>
			<p>How glad I am you weren‚Äôt there when it happened. That seems like a special providence, too, doesn‚Äôt it? Because you would have had to go for a doctor, and then he might have recovered. And besides people might have thought you had something to do with it‚ÅÝ‚Äîif they ever found out about you and me, I mean. Doesn‚Äôt it seem like a judgment on him, Petra? And I used to be so angry about his cooking and his toadstool book and everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîand all the while he was digging a pit for himself to fall into, like the wicked man in the Bible! It was all planned out from the beginning, to set us free for our beautiful life together. What was that thing people used to say‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomething in Latin about when God wishes to destroy anybody He first makes him mad. He <i>was</i> mad about the toadstools and things, you know. Sometimes, when he had those dreadful fits of temper, I used to think he was really and truly mad. I was afraid of him then, but I see now there was nothing to be afraid of. It was all meant to help us in the end.</p>
			<p>And Petra‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat other thing I was afraid of‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs all right! Nothing is going to happen! It was just a mistake. Isn‚Äôt that splendid? Because now we shan‚Äôt have to get married in such a hurry. That might have made people talk, you know. We only have to wait a little bit now‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust a little patience, my sweetheart, and then‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, Petra! Think of the happiness! Everything has come right at once, hasn‚Äôt it, my darling? All the clouds cleared away and the sun shining.</p>
			<p>Well, now, darling‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou won‚Äôt mind if I talk just a little bit of business? It seems horrid to think of it, when our love ought to be the one thing in our minds, but we must be a little bit practical. Of course, I had to send for the lawyer this morning and he showed me the will. There will be about ¬£15,000 when it is all cleared up. Half of this goes to his son, Paul, straight away, and I get the other half for my lifetime, after which it would all go to my children‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis and mine‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is, if there were any, and failing them, it goes to Paul when I die. So you see, I shall only be bringing you a small income, dear, but you are making money now, so we shan‚Äôt be so badly off, shall we? It‚Äôs funny‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI suppose if you and I had really had a child, the law would have presumed it was <i>his</i> (think of that!), and then it would have inherited the money! But I think perhaps it is better as it is. It might not have seemed quite honourable to profit by anything that wasn‚Äôt quite true, and I should like to feel that everything about our love was absolutely clear and honourable, and that we had nothing to reproach ourselves about. Of course, narrow-minded people might think our love itself was wicked‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut one can‚Äôt help loving, can one, darling? One might as well tell the sun not to rise. Because you and I belong to one another, and nothing in all the world can alter that. So you won‚Äôt mind about the money, will you, Petra? I was afraid he might have made some mean condition about my not marrying again, but I suppose he didn‚Äôt think of that.</p>
			<p>You will have to stay for the inquest, of course. Shall I have to go? I don‚Äôt like the idea of standing up with everybody looking at me. Besides, I can‚Äôt tell them anything, can I? Do you think he ought to be buried down there or brought back to London? I want to do whatever you think would look right. I have cabled to Paul, but he is so far away in the wilds, I don‚Äôt know whether I shall get an answer in time. All these things are so absurd and hateful. We surround death with such a lot of hypocrisy and formality. It ought to be made just simple and beautiful, like the leaves falling. I shall have to order mourning and a widow‚Äôs veil‚ÅÝ‚Äîthink of wearing black clothes when one is happy. I should like a robe made of the rainbow‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm wearing it in my heart, darling‚ÅÝ‚Äîall for you!</p>
			<p>Write quickly, dearest, and tell me what to do. And tell me that you are as glad as I am and that you love me, love me, love me as I love you!</p>
			<p>Lolo</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
