<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>44: The Same to the Same</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">44</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Same to the Same</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15, Whittington Terrace<br/>
				<time datetime="1929-10-05">5th <abbr>Oct.</abbr>, 1929</time></p>
			</header>
			<p>Oh, Petra, I am so frightened. Darling, something dreadful has happened. I’m sure⁠—I’m almost quite sure. Do you remember when I said Nature couldn’t revenge herself? Oh, but she can and <em>has</em>, Petra. What shall I do? I’ve tried things, but it’s no good, Petra, you’ve <em>got</em> to help me. I never thought of this⁠—we were so careful⁠—but something must have gone wrong. Petra, darling, I can’t face it. I shall kill myself. He’ll find out⁠—he must find out, and he’ll be so cruel, and it will all be too terrible.</p>
			<p>Petra, I was so desperate I tried to make him⁠—don’t be angry, Petra⁠—I mean, I tried to be nice to him and make him love me, but it wasn’t any good. I don’t know what he will do to me when he discovers the truth. Darling, darling, do <em>something</em>⁠—anything! I can’t think of any way, but there must be one, somehow. Everybody will know, and there will be a frightful fuss and scandal. And even if we got a divorce, it wouldn’t be in time⁠—they are so slow in those dreadful courts. But I don’t expect he would divorce me. He would just smother it all up and be cruel to me. I don’t know. I feel so ill, and I can’t sleep. He asked me what was the matter with me today. I’d been crying and I looked simply awful. Petra, my dearest, what <em>can</em> we do? How cruel God is! He must be on the conventional people’s side after all. Do write quickly and tell me what to do. And don’t, don’t be angry with me, darling, for getting you into this trouble. I couldn’t help it. Write to me or come to me⁠—I shall go mad with worry. If you love me at all, Petra, you must help me now.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Lolo</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
