<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>3. <i>The Same to the Same</i></h3>
			<p>15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater</p>
			<p><time datetime="">20th September, 1928</time></p>
			<p>Dear Olive,</p>
			<p>You ought to thank your lucky stars, my dear, that you <i>are</i> the sort of person for whom “a good husband” is enough. But then, of course, Mother never brought us up to be brainy. We always lived so quietly at home, and what you’ve never had you don’t miss, as the saying goes. I can’t say I should have cared for an office job myself, though perhaps it would have been better for my health if I had had something to occupy my mind. But I am really feeling much better now, and I am getting free of that dreadful sensation of being obliged to go back and see if I really have done things when I know perfectly well I have. I know you say everybody feels like that sometimes, but you don’t know what it’s like to be <i>compelled</i> to do it! The other night I got the idea that I had left the beef out on the kitchen table, and though I really remembered quite clearly shutting it up in the meat-safe, I simply <i>had</i> to creep downstairs in my dressing-gown and make sure, otherwise I shouldn’t have got a wink of sleep. Still, that has been the only relapse for about a fortnight now.</p>
			<p>As a matter of fact, we have had quite a lot of thrills this week⁠—very good for us⁠—occupies our minds, you know. The upstairs tenants have arrived!! Two young men⁠—the artist and a poet! They came in the day before yesterday, and oh, my dear, the bumpings and noises! They brought a grand piano⁠—I only hope they won’t be playing it all night, because I’m simply good for nothing if I don’t get my sleep before midnight⁠—and there’s a gramophone as well. Why can’t people be content with the wireless, which shuts down at a reasonable hour?</p>
			<p>I haven’t properly seen the poet yet, except that he’s rather tall and dark and thin. I’ve only caught glimpses of him running in and out of the front door, but the artist came in the first night after dinner to ask about the coal bunkers. He is quite exciting looking⁠—very young⁠—not more than twenty-four or five, I should say, with a lot of thick hair and one of those rather sulky-handsome faces. He has very nice manners, and didn’t address <i>all</i> his conversation to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison and leave me out in the cold, as most of these young men do. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison, even, was quite gracious to him and offered him a drink, and he stayed talking for quite a little while. His name is Lathom, and he has very little money and has to take afternoon classes in an Art-school, but, of course, that is only to make money until he gets recognised. He has exhibited pictures in Manchester (I think he said), and some other places up north, but he didn’t talk much about his work. He seems nice and modest about it. I think <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison is rather pleased that there should be an artist in the house. He started laying down the law about art at once, in his usual way, and brought out some of his water-colours for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom to look at. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom said they were very nice indeed, which rather surprised me, because I always think they are rather wishy-washy. However, I suppose he couldn’t very well have said anything else, as he was drinking <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison’s whiskey and had never seen him till that moment.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison seemed rather nervous all the time, and she said afterwards she thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom was quite a pleasant young man, but she did wish George wouldn’t inflict his painting on everybody. It must be very humiliating to be ashamed of one’s husband’s manners.</p>
			<p>I have a dreadful confession to make about Tom’s stockings! With all my care, one of the turn-overs has come out slightly larger and looser than the other. It is so tiresome! Why should one’s knitting vary so from day to day? I suppose as long as one is a human being and not a machine one must get variations in one’s work, but I thought I had been so careful. I simply can’t face unpicking it all, and it isn’t really very noticeable. Tell Tom, if he can manage to put up with the trifling difference for a few weeks, it will probably even itself up in the wash.</p>
			<p>I went out to Virginia Water on Sunday on a ’bus and had a lovely walk. I have been trying to put down my impressions in a little sketch. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Trevor thinks it is quite good, and says I must certainly persevere. He says my power of <i>feeling</i> things so intensely ought to make me a really good writer, when I have mastered the technique of putting it down on paper.</p>
			<p>Best love to you all. Give the children each a hug from their Auntie. I hope you are keeping free from colds.</p>
			<p>Your affectionate sister,</p>
			<p>Aggie</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
