<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>14: The Same to the Same</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">14</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Same to the Same</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15a, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="1928-10-26">26.10.28</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dearest and most wonderful Bungie,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Forgive me for writing such a foul letter, and bless you for answering it so promptly. The alarming list of faults which you have produced in answer to mine relieves my mind a good deal. Thank Heaven for a woman with a sense of humour. I was feeling rather awful that day, being thoroughly fagged, and had, I suppose, a grouch against civilisation. But I quite agree about the innocent “animal” business; I can imagine nothing more tedious. All the same, I feel very strongly, in my more honest moments, that love has got to be happy, for fear it should become all-important. I can’t expect you to understand this, and you would be an unnatural woman if you did, and I should hate you for it. But I do feel that the old “not long will his love stay behind him” attitude is degrading and horrible. I don’t want to feel that anybody’s life and happiness is bound up with mine. What dignity is there in life if one is not free to take one’s own risks? It doesn’t matter whether it’s a wife or a parent or a child or a brother⁠—people should set their own value on themselves and not “live for others” or “live only in their children,” or whoever it is. It’s beastly. And yet⁠—if I heard you say that⁠—I don’t know, but I expect I should go off the deep end like poor old Harrison.</p>
			<p>I think Lathom is rather getting on my nerves. If I had known he was such a gregarious devil I don’t think I should have agreed to set up housekeeping with him. Fortunately, as he is merely an acquaintance, and <em>not</em> my wife or my father or my brother, I can more or less ignore his vagaries. He is always “running down” to see the Harrisons, and having them up here. You can’t get on with your work when people are everlastingly coming in and out. I just chuck it now, and sit tight in my own room, and let them get on with it.</p>
			<p>I like the old boy, though⁠—and, by jove, he does know how to cook! Yes, cook! He has a passion for cookery as a fine art. I must get him to show me how to make omelettes⁠—I don’t believe <em>you</em> know anything about it, do you? Also rump-steak, on which his views are very sound. He also has a fungus-complex⁠—thinks the poor peasant ought to go forth and cull his grub from the hedgerow, and all that. He knows a tremendous lot about edible toadstools, and delivers lectures on them to Lathom, for whom he has taken a great fancy. As a matter of fact, Lathom is one of those offensively healthy people who shovel down anything that is set before them, but Harrison doesn’t see that, and enthuses mildly on in a sort of resistless river of speech that forces itself past all interruptions. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">H.</abbr> yawns, Miss Milsom yawns, Lathom yawns and I do my best not to yawn, because I’m the only person here who has any real sympathy with the subject, so it’s up to me. I’m not sure, though, that his monologues aren’t better than her intense duets. However, Harrison has now gone away into the country on his lonesome, so perhaps we shall be free of visitors for a bit.</p>
			<p>I have been round to see Merritt &amp; Hopkins, and this time saw the great Man of Merritt himself. He was very genial, and encouraged me to dig my old novel out of its sepulchre, in a last forlorn effort. You know⁠—the one I wrote just before I met you, and which no one will have anything to do with. He has promised to read it himself, which was so decent of him that I hadn’t the heart to suggest that a younger man might look upon it with more sympathy!</p>
			<p>I have just been reading the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Messenger’s</i> interview with you, my child. How entertaining! What grand publicity! And how damnable impertinent. I suppose I shall be expected to put up with everybody having the right to comment on My Wife in public. We shall have rows about it; I see that inevitably. I shall sneer first and then lose my temper, and if you once give in you will be a lost woman.</p>
			<p>Are you still quite sure you want to risk matrimony with</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours infuriatingly,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Jack</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
