<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>48: Extract from the Morning Express of Wednesday, November 5th, 1929</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2" id="chapter-48" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">48</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Extract from the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Morning Express</i> of Wednesday, <time datetime="1929-11-05">November 5th, 1929</time></p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>Sir James Lubbock on Shack Poison Drama</p>
				<p>“Accidental Death” Verdict</p>
				<p>Coroner’s Warning Words to Parents</p>
			</header>
			<p>Startling evidence was given today at the resumed inquest at Manaton on the body of George Harrison, 56 years old, of 15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the lonely cottage known as The Shack, on Saturday, October 19th.</p>
			<p>At the previous sitting of the coroner’s jury, evidence was given by the well-known artist, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harwood Lathom, of his finding of the body on returning with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Munting, author of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">I to Hercules</i>, from a brief visit to London. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom, who had been spending his holiday alone in The Shack with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison, described the curious bachelor life led by the deceased at The Shack, and his habit of cooking and eating unconventional dishes of hedgehogs, mushrooms and other natural objects.</p>
			<p class="subhead">Home Office Expert and “Deadly Fungus”</p>
			<p>Sir James Lubbock, the Home Office Analyst, was the first witness to be called at the resumed inquest. He stated that he had made an analysis of the contents of the stomach and other organs of the deceased, together with vomited matter obtained from the bedclothes and elsewhere. He had also analysed the remains of a dish of mushrooms and other articles of diet found on the table.</p>
			<p>“From the stomach, the vomited matter, and from the unconsumed portion of the dish of fungus,” said Sir James, “I obtained by analysis a considerable quantity of a substance known as ‘muscarine,’ which is the poisonous principle of a fungus, <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Amanita muscaria</i>, or the Fly Agaric.”</p>
			<p>Sir James added that, estimating the amount of the poison which had been rejected from the body in the course of the sickness, he came to the conclusion that deceased must have consumed a very large quantity of the poison.</p>
			<p>Sufficient to cause death?⁠—Certainly. Muscarine is an exceedingly deadly poison.</p>
			<p>What would be the symptoms of poisoning by muscarine?⁠—They vary in different cases. Generally speaking, a sensation of acute sickness would be experienced almost immediately after the meal, followed by violent vomiting and diarrhoea. There might also be a feeling of suffocation and dizziness, sometimes accompanied by blindness. The victim would suffer acute distress and intense depression and fear of death. Unconsciousness might supervene, or there might be violent convulsions and prolonged delirium. Death would probably ensue as a result of respiratory paralysis.</p>
			<p>Will you explain that more simply to the jury?⁠—The poison would paralyse the muscles of the throat and chest, and the victim would be unable to breathe and would die of suffocation.</p>
			<p>You have seen that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hughes mentioned in his evidence that the pupils of the eyes were slightly contracted when he first saw the body. What conclusion do you draw from that?⁠—I cannot definitely say. Myosis (that is, contraction of the pupils) is characteristic of the effects of certain poisons, including muscarine, but the contraction usually disappears at death, though, curiously enough, in the case of eserine, a pronounced myosis has been found five hours after death. I should regard a slight degree of contraction as consistent with muscarine poisoning, but not, in itself, conclusive evidence one way or another.</p>
			<p>Have you ever seen a case of muscarine poisoning?⁠—I have seen perhaps half a dozen cases in my own experience, mostly among children who had eaten the Fly Agaric in mistake for an edible mushroom. One case, I remember, was brought to the hospital too late for anything to be done, and the patient expired in convulsions after a period of unconsciousness. Three or four were treated by the injection of atropin and recovered completely. Another case was not brought to my notice till after the symptoms had cleared up of their own accord; in this case the amount eaten was very small.</p>
			<p>Such cases are not always fatal?⁠—By no means. If the proper treatment can be given immediately, the prognosis is favourable. Without such treatment, however, and where a large quantity of the poison is consumed, recovery would be less likely.</p>
			<p><i>The Coroner</i>: In your opinion, what was the cause of death in the case of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison?</p>
			<p><i>Sir James Lubbock</i>: I have not the slightest doubt that he died of poisoning by muscarine, taken in the dish of fungus submitted to me for analysis.</p>
			<p>Sir James further added that the Fly Agaric, <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Amanita muscaria</i>, was frequently found in woods and sheltered places, and was liable to be eaten in mistake for another member of the same family, <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Amanita rubescens</i>, or Warty Caps, an edible fungus which it very closely resembled.</p>
			<p>Reference was made to the Government publication, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Edible and Poisonous Fungi</i>, and to the book <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Neglected Edible Treasures</i>, written by the deceased, and pictures of the fungi in question were passed round among the jury.</p>
			<p>Questioned with regard to the eggs, bread, coffee, whiskey and other articles of diet found in The Shack, Sir James said he had subjected them all to careful analysis, without discovering anything of a deleterious character.</p>
			<p class="subhead">Deceased Seen Gathering Fungi</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Hughes of Bovey Tracey, who performed the autopsy, said that he had found the heart of the deceased very greatly dilated, a symptom characteristic of poisoning by <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Amanita muscaria</i>.</p>
			<p>Harold Coffin, a labourer, gave evidence that he had met with deceased on the morning of October 17th. He had a satchel slung over his shoulder, and appeared to be searching for something on the ground. The time would be about 8 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> Deceased was then entering a small wood situated in the valley below Manaton. The witness had frequently seen deceased wandering about the country, sometimes with a sketching-easel and sometimes gathering plants and roots. Deceased had sometimes conversed with the witness about making a meal of unnatural things, such as nettles and toadstools, and witness had always supposed him to be a little peculiar in his head.</p>
			<p>Henry Trefusis, a carrier, stated that he had delivered a loaf of bread, a pound of shin of beef and other provisions to The Shack, at 10:30 <abbr>a.m.</abbr>, on Thursday, October 17th. Deceased had called out to him from the outhouse to put the goods on the windowsill. As far as he could see and hear, deceased was then in his usual health and spirits.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom, recalled, confirmed his previous statement that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harrison had spoken to him on the Wednesday evening about his intention of gathering fungi the next day, and had mentioned a name resembling “Warty Hats” or “Warty Caps.”</p>
			<p>The coroner, in summing up the evidence to the jury, laid stress on the danger of experimenting in unusual articles of diet. It was notorious, he said, that other nations, such as the French, were accustomed to eat many natural products, such as frogs, snails, dandelions and various kinds of fungi, which in this country were considered unfit for human food. Such experiments, when conducted by highly expert persons, might sometimes turn out well, but, on the other hand, nobody was infallible, and undoubtedly a wise caution was in most cases to be preferred. Sir James Lubbock had cited some very sad instances of unfortunate children who had succumbed to the effects of accidentally eating those dangerous toadstools which unhappily grew in such great profusion in many parts of the country, and he would like to urge on all parents the advisability of strictly forbidding their boys and girls to tamper with anything which they might pick up on their rambles. The present case would serve as a terrible warning, which he hoped would not soon be forgotten. It was most unfortunate that, owing to the remote situation of The Shack and the unlucky absence of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom in London, there should have been no help at hand when the deceased was overtaken by this terrible accident. The circumstances of his lonely and agonising death were such as to arouse the deepest compassion for the widow and son of the deceased.</p>
			<p>The jury, after a few minutes’ consultation, brought in a verdict of Accidental Death, due to poisoning by <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Amanita muscaria</i>. The foreman said that the jury desired to express their deep sympathy with the bereaved family. They would also like to add a rider to the effect that teachers in the schools of the surrounding districts should be encouraged to warn their pupils against the eating of toadstools, and that charts displaying the various kinds of poisonous fungi should be hung in the classrooms.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>[An article on Fungi, by Professor Brookes, the distinguished naturalist, will be found on <abbr>p.</abbr> 8.]</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
