<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>40: The Same to the Same</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">40</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Same to the Same</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<time datetime="1929-06-14">14th June, 1929</time>
				</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Darling,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Your letter hurt me so dreadfully, I cried and cried. Oh, Petra, you can’t love me at all, or you wouldn’t say such awful things. You can’t really think that if I love you I ought to let <em>him</em> divorce <em>me</em>. Darling, do think how horrible it would be! How could I go through all that terrible shame in public, and all my friends looking on and thinking hateful things about our beautiful love! At least, I suppose I could go through with it⁠—one can go through all kinds of agonies and still live⁠—but that you should <em>want</em> me to do it⁠—that you could think of your Lolo in such a sordid way⁠—that’s what hurts me, darling. You used to say you wanted to stand between me and trouble, and couldn’t bear to think of anything ugly touching our pure and lovely passion. And yet now you want to smirch me with the stain of the divorce courts and see my name in the papers for people to snigger at. Oh, Petra, it’s absolutely clear you don’t really love me one bit.</p>
			<p>You couldn’t feel the same to me, Petra, I know that, if I came to you all dirtied and draggled from an ordeal like that. Just think of having to stand up in the witness-box and tell the judge all about our love. It would all sound so different to their worldly, coarse, horrible minds, and our love would seem just a vulgar, nasty⁠—I don’t like to write the word they would call it, even to you⁠—instead of the pure, clean, divine thing it really is.</p>
			<p>Darling, I’m not thinking of myself⁠—I’m thinking of you and our love. I don’t want a single spot to touch it. It would be better to suffer all our lives as we are suffering now⁠—as <em>I</em> am suffering, for sometimes, Petra, I don’t think you suffer at all⁠—rather than to look at each other with the shadow of an ugly scandal between us. You don’t understand. You don’t realise what a difference these things make to a woman. It does not make any difference to a man, but even you would see the stain on me forever afterwards, and would turn against me.</p>
			<p>Tell me you don’t really mean it, darling. There must be some other way out. Let us think very hard and find out. Or if you really think so little of me, tell me so, and we will say goodbye again⁠—for always, this time. I expect I was wrong to stick to our agreement before. You wanted to be released then, and you wouldn’t have asked it if you hadn’t been tired of me already in your heart. Let’s end it all, Petra. Perhaps I shall die, and then you will be free. I feel unhappy enough to die⁠—and if I’m too strong for wretchedness to kill me, there are always easy ways out of it all.</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your heartbroken</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Lolo</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
