<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>22: John Munting to Elizabeth Drake</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">22</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">John Munting to Elizabeth Drake</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15a, Whittington Terrace<br/>
				<time datetime="1928-12-01">1.12.28</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Beloved Bungie,</p>
			</header>
			<p>Here we are again! Back home and full of beans and fit to face anything, even Lathoms and Milsoms.</p>
			<p>By the way, I’ve got to take back what I said about Lathom. I’ll forgive him anything for being such a bloody fine painter. My God, he has made a fine thing of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison⁠—old Halkett would grunt in his funny gruff way and say, “It’s a masterpiece.” He wants to send it to the Academy (where it would probably be the picture of the year, if the Committee didn’t hang themselves in their own wires under the shock of seeing a decent bit of painting for once)⁠—only, of course, those imbecile women have made a hash of it and put Harrison’s back up. Blether, blether blether⁠—rushing at the poor man with chatter about newspaper sensations and standing under my portrait on opening day, blah! blah! blah! before the poor man had finished reeling under the impact. Row, of course. I told Lathom not to be a silly ass, and to go and apologise quietly to Harrison afterwards and tell him there wasn’t the slightest intention of showing it against his wishes. If he uses a little tact, the old boy will take it for granted three months hence that the thing is going to be shown and imagine he suggested it himself. I’ve got Harrison fairly well sized up, but his wife is a silly egoist, and Lathom has no practical sense at all as regards human relationships. Anyway, I hope the thing will be there, because I’d like you to see it. It’s really first-rate. And revealing, my God! only <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">H.</abbr> doesn’t see that, and I don’t think Lathom realises it either.</p>
			<p>I’ve had a letter from Merritt⁠—he “has read the book with much interest and would be glad if I could find time to call and discuss it with him at my convenience.” First time anybody’s even offered to discuss it. I suppose that if I will consent to cut out all the “advanced” passages, and “brighten” the style and give it a more “satisfactory” ending, he will consider doing something with it. Well, he won’t get the chance, that’s all.</p>
			<p>Thank Heaven, the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Life</i> is practically finished with. I’m thankful to get rid of it. It has led me into reading a lot of scientific and metaphysical tripe which is of no use to anybody, and least of all to a creative writer (a fact I have taken delight in rubbing in, in the course of the work!). And the further you go with it, the worse it gets. Lucretius could make great poetry out of science, and Bacon got some good work in on it⁠—and even Tennyson could screw some fine lines out of an unsound theory of evolution and perfectibility and all the rest of it. But now, oh, heavens! after the biochemist, the mathematician. What can you make out of the action of the glands of internal secretion upon metabolism, or Pi and the square root of minus one? Despair and a kind of gloomy grubbiness, that’s all. I’d rather have a Miltonian theology to make poetry of than all this business of liver and gonads and the velocity of light. Perry the parson gets out of it by pretending that the Catholic Church knew all about it from the beginning, and that inaccurate theological metaphors can be interpreted as pseudo-scientific formulae, which is a lie. The origin of life is our great stamping-ground for discussion. You can’t make life synthetically in a laboratory⁠—therefore he deduces that it came by divine interference! Rather an assumption! But, after all, he is little worse than the man of science. “In some way or other, life came,” they say. “Sometime, somehow, we may learn how to make it.” But even if one could learn to make it, that doesn’t account for its having arrived spontaneously in the first place. The biologist can push it back to the original protist, and the chemist can push it back to the crystal, but none of them touch the real question of why or how the thing began at all. The astronomer goes back untold million of years and ends in gas and emptiness, and then the mathematician sweeps the whole cosmos into unreality and leaves one with mind as the only thing of which we have any immediate apprehension. <i xml:lang="la">Cogito, ergo sum, ergo omnia esse videntur.</i> All this bother, and we are no further than Descartes. Have you noticed that the astronomers and mathematicians are much the most cheerful people of the lot? I suppose that perpetually contemplating things on so vast a scale makes them feel either that it doesn’t matter a hoot anyway, or that anything so large and elaborate must have some sense in it somewhere.</p>
			<p>I wish I had Lathom’s robust contempt for all this kind of thing. His attitude is that biochemistry cannot affect his life or his art, so let them get on with it. I am tossed about with every wind of doctrine, and if I’m not damn careful I shall end by writing a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Point Counterpoint</i>, without the wit. You can’t really make a novel hold together if you don’t believe in causation.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Said a rising young author, “What, what?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I think that causation is not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No word of my text</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will bear on the next</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what will become of the plot?”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Perhaps this accounts for my never having been able to produce a book with a plot⁠—except, of course, the one Merritt wants to see me about. And that was a sort of freak book.</p>
			<p>Well, never mind. Only a fortnight now and I shall be seeing you. Praise God (or whatever it is) from (if direction exists) whom (if personality exists) all blessings (if that word corresponds to any percept of objective reality) flow (if Heraclitus and Bergson and Einstein are correct in stating that everything is more or less flowing about).</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your ever faithful</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Jack</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
