<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>16: Agatha Milsom to Olive Farebrother</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1" id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">16</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Agatha Milsom to Olive Farebrother</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">15, Whittington Terrace, Bayswater<br/>
				<time datetime="1928-10-25">25.10.28</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dearest Olive,</p>
			</header>
			<p>We are all breathing again! The Bear has taken himself off for one of his camping holidays, complete with painting outfit and half a dozen scribbling pads. He is actually going to write a book!⁠—telling people how to live on nettles and toadstools and that sort of thing, and how in case of another Great War we could support the entire nation on boiled hedgehogs or some such nastiness. My dear, it is such a relief to get him out of the house! Of course, he couldn’t go off without creating an unpleasantness. He was absurd enough to suggest that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison should go with him⁠—the idea of it! in a horrible little shack, <em>miles</em> from anywhere⁠—damp as a well, I shouldn’t wonder, with no proper water or <em>sanitation</em> or anything. Did you ever hear of such a thing? Naturally, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison said she didn’t think she would care about it⁠—what did the man expect? He didn’t say anything more about it <em>then</em>⁠—I think I’ve taught him not to bully his wife when I’m about!⁠—but he took it out of her when they went upstairs. She came in crying at 12 o’clock at night to sleep with me because she couldn’t stand it any longer. “My dear,” I said, “why do you take notice of it? If he wants your company so badly, why can’t he sacrifice himself for once and take you to Brighton or Margate, or some nice cheerful place? He just likes to make people miserable, that’s all.” So then I told her a little about what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Trevor said about the people who enjoy inflicting torture on others. I said, “You must just look on it as a kind of disease and not resent it if you can help it. Build up a wall of protective thought about yourself and determine to be quite detached about it.” We had a very interesting little talk about repressions, and I have lent her my handbook to Freud. It is so important to get a healthy angle on these things.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom has been very nice, coming in almost every evening to keep us company. It must be a relief to him not to be bothered with the Bear’s everlasting drivel about Art. He is going to paint our portraits. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison is going up for her first sitting tomorrow. It is to be a blue, green and bronze colour-scheme⁠—blue dress, green background and a big bowl of those bronze Chrysanthemums. It gave <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom a great deal of trouble deciding it. Of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Harrison is very attractive-looking, but you couldn’t exactly call her <em>pretty</em>, with those greeny eyes and her rather pale complexion. I haven’t decided what to wear. I asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom, but he said he thought I should look nice in anything and he could safely leave it to me. I think I shall have it done in that orange thing with the square yoke⁠—the one which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ramsbottom said made me look like a Pre-Raphaelite page⁠—you remember?⁠—and have my hair waved and curled under all round to carry out the idea. I pointed out to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lathom that my face wasn’t the same both sides, and he laughed, and said no human being ever was the same both sides⁠—Nature never worked by rule and compass.</p>
			<p>I am doing well with my stockings, and have had several orders for scarves. Don’t forget to tell anybody who wants one that I am quite ready to undertake the work. I am experimenting on some calendars, made like the old-fashioned tinsel pictures, with the coloured paper-wrappers off chocolate creams. Some of the designs are simply beautiful. You might send me any you get. I think I might get some Christmas orders for them. I’ve thought out quite an original idea.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>[The remainder of this letter, which contained only some designs for needlework, has been detached.]</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
