<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction z3998:letter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Introduction</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Paul Harrison to Sir Gilbert Pugh</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="label">[Letter covering the attached documents.]</p>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Redgauntlet Hotel, Bloomsbury, <abbr epub:type="z3998:place">WC</abbr>.<br/>
				<time datetime="1930-03-18">18th March, 1930</time></p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Sir,</p>
			</header>
			<p>I am obliged by your letter of yesterday’s date, and hasten to send you, as requested, the complete dossier of documents. When you have read them, I shall be happy to call upon you at any time convenient to yourself, and give you any further information that may be within my power.</p>
			<p>All the points I specially wished to make are, I think, fully covered by my previous letter. But since that letter has now served its original purpose of arousing your interest in the matter, I feel that it would be better forgotten, as far as possible. I would rather you came to the present documents with an entirely open mind. To me, who have been working over them for the last six or seven months, they seem to point clearly to one and only one conclusion, but I suppose it is possible that both Sir James Lubbock and I may be mistaken. You will judge for yourself. I only most earnestly beg of you to give the case your most careful consideration. You will realise that it is of vital importance to me to have the matter fully investigated.</p>
			<p>You will, I fear, find some of the letters and statements very diffuse and full of irrelevancies. I thought it best to send the originals, complete and untouched, exactly as they stand. Many of the incidental details, though unimportant in themselves, throw useful sidelights on the situation, and will, I think, help a stranger, like yourself to understand exactly what took place in my late father’s household.</p>
			<p>I have arranged the papers, as nearly as possible, in chronological order. My own statement (Number 49) explains fully how the various documents came into my hands.</p>
			<p>Trusting to hear further from you in due course,</p>
			<footer>
				<p>
					<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">I am, dear sir,<br/>
					Yours faithfully,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Paul Harrison</b>
				</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
